Improve documentation and guidelines (#186)
Ekumen-OS/beluga: CONTRIBUTING.md

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Contributing to Beluga

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! ❤️

> All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents) for different ways to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for us maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved. The community looks forward to your contributions. 🎉

Author: I think "types" is okay here.

> And if you like the project, but just don't have time to contribute, that's fine. There are other easy ways to support the project and show your appreciation, which we would also be very happy about:
> - Star the project
> - Tweet about it
> - Refer this project in your project's readme

> > - Mention the project at local meetups and tell your friends/colleagues

Author: "about it" is not needed IMO

<!-- omit in toc -->
## Table of Contents

- [I Have a Question](#i-have-a-question)
- [I Want To Contribute](#i-want-to-contribute)
  - [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
  - [Requesting Features](#requesting-features)
  - [Your First Code Contribution](#your-first-code-contribution)
- [Styleguides](#styleguides)

## I Have a Question

> If you want to ask a question, we assume that you have read the available [Documentation](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga).

> Before you ask a question, it is best to search for existing [Issues](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/issues) that might help you. In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, you can write your question in this issue. It is also advisable to search the internet for answers first.

Author: Done in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/570081679de0004a1a82d9ef2f29b2e232069b48.

If you then still feel the need to ask a question and need clarification, we recommend the following:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/issues/new).
- Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.

> - Provide project and platform versions, depending on what seems relevant.

Author: Current version looks fine IMO.

> We will then take care of the issue as soon as possible.

Author: Done in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/570081679de0004a1a82d9ef2f29b2e232069b48.

- Collect information about the bug:
  - Stack trace (Traceback)
  - OS, Platform and Version (Windows, Linux, macOS, x86, ARM)
  - Version of the interpreter, compiler, middleware, package manager, depending on what is relevant.
  - Possibly your input and the output
  - Can you reliably reproduce the issue? And can you also reproduce it with older versions?

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### How Do I Submit a Good Bug Report?

We use GitHub issues to track bugs and errors. If you run into an issue with the project:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/issues/new). (Since we can't be sure at this point whether it is a bug or not, we ask you not to talk about a bug yet and not to label the issue.)
- Explain the behavior you would expect and the actual behavior.
- Please provide as much context as possible and describe the *reproduction steps* that someone else can follow to recreate the issue on their own. This usually includes your code. For good bug reports you should isolate the problem and create a reduced test case.
- Provide the information you collected in the previous section.

Once it's filed:

- The project team will label the issue accordingly.

> - A team member will try to reproduce the issue with your provided steps. If there are no reproduction steps or no obvious way to reproduce the issue, the team will ask you for those steps and label the issue as `needs-repro`. Bugs with the `needs-repro` label will not be addressed until they are reproduced.

Author: Done in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/570081679de0004a1a82d9ef2f29b2e232069b48.

> - If the team is able to reproduce the issue, it will be labelled `needs-fix`, as well as possibly other labels, and the issue will be left to be [implemented by someone](#your-first-code-contribution).

Author: Done in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/570081679de0004a1a82d9ef2f29b2e232069b48.

> - If the team is able to reproduce the issue, it will be labelled `needs-fix`, as well as possibly other labels, and the issue will be left to be [implemented by someone](#your-first-code-contribution).

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/d4b65fca80a38661751916e55469a05aee16816c.

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### Before Submitting a Feature Request

- Make sure that you are using the latest version.
- Read the [documentation](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga) carefully and find out if the functionality is already covered.
- Perform a [search](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/issues) to see if the feature has already been requested. If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.
- Find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project. It's up to you to make a strong case to convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature.

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### How Do I Submit a Good Feature Request?

Feature requests are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/issues).

- Use a **clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- Provide a **step-by-step description of the suggested feature** in as many details as possible.

> - **Describe the current behavior** and **explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why. At this point you can also tell which alternatives do not work for you.

Author: Removed in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/f8356511b0a724c2761e248ae2fb6860c0d30e77.

- **Explain why this feature would be useful** to most Beluga users. You may also want to point out the other projects that solved it better and which could serve as inspiration.

### Your First Code Contribution

This section guides you through contributing code to Beluga. Following these guidelines will help maintainers and ensure your contributions are reviewed and eventually accepted.

#### A Primer On Project Workflow

> This projects adopts a [feature branch workflow](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/version-control/what-is-git-workflow/#feature-branching-git-workflow) ([forking workflow](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/version-control/what-is-git-workflow/#forking-git-workflow) for contributors that are not maintainers), with pull requests for code integration. Every code contribution must be associated to a [feature request](#requesting-features) or [bug report](#reporting-bugs) with enough consensus and evidence to move forward, signaled with `needs-work` and `needs-fix` labels respectively. Contributors must sign-off each commit by adding a `Signed-off-by: ...` line to every commit message to certify that they have the right to submit the code they are contributing to the project according to the [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://developercertificate.org/). Pull requests must have been reviewed and approved at least once to be merged.

Author: I think it looks good once rendered.

#### How Do I Submit a Good Code Contribution?

> - **Pull latest `main` branch**. Clone repository (or repository fork) locally if you haven't yet.

Author: Done in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/570081679de0004a1a82d9ef2f29b2e232069b48.

- **Branch from `main` branch**. Use a descriptive name for your feature branch. Make sure to prefix it with the associated issue number.
- **Work on your contribution**. See [instructions](GETTING_STARTED.md) on how to get started with Beluga development.

> - **Lint and test your changes**. For bug fixes, make sure regression tests are included.

Author: Yes, the instructions are already in `GETTING_STARTED.md`. I don't think we need a link.

> - **Document your changes as needed**. For new features, make sure added functionality is clearly documented.

Author: We don't, what kind of documentation are you thinking of?

> - **Document your changes as needed**. For new features, make sure added functionality is clearly documented.

Reviewer: I had in mind that doxygen is used, so that documentation can be generated automatically.

> - **Push your feature branch**. To upstream repository (or repository fork).

Author: Current settings shouldn't allow someone who is not a contributor to push to this repository.
Are you saying we should make direct contributors create forks too? I don't think that's necessary.

> - **Push your feature branch**. To upstream repository (or repository fork).

Reviewer: > Current settings shouldn't allow someone who is not a contributor to push to this repository.

Ok, that's what I was proposing. In that case what repository does "Push your feature branch. To upstream repository" refer to? As a user forking this repo, upstream to me means this repo, not my fork (which would by default be origin). If we don't allow non-contributors to push here, then most people who read this will not be able to push to upstream.

> - **Push your feature branch**. To upstream repository (or repository fork).

Author: Ok, I changed the instructions in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/5d1f4de22db1ad4e58d693a2758bc6d9d3ce2bd9.

Internal contributors can create forks if they want, but I think there is no need to enforce it internally just yet (pushing a branch to the repo if you have access is allowed for now).

> - **Open pull request to `main`**. Make sure all tests and linters pass on your branch before opening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Open a pull request against the `main` branch**. Make sure all tests and linters pass on your branch before doing so, since the PR creation will trigger a CI run.
```

Author: Changed instructions in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/5d1f4de22db1ad4e58d693a2758bc6d9d3ce2bd9.

- Collect information about the bug:
  - Stack trace (Traceback)
  - OS, Platform and Version (Windows, Linux, macOS, x86, ARM)
  - Version of the interpreter, compiler, middleware, package manager, depending on what is relevant.
  - Possibly your input and the output
  - Can you reliably reproduce the issue? And can you also reproduce it with older versions?

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### How Do I Submit a Good Bug Report?

We use GitHub issues to track bugs and errors. If you run into an issue with the project:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/issues/new). (Since we can't be sure at this point whether it is a bug or not, we ask you not to talk about a bug yet and not to label the issue.)
- Explain the behavior you would expect and the actual behavior.
- Please provide as much context as possible and describe the *reproduction steps* that someone else can follow to recreate the issue on their own. This usually includes your code. For good bug reports you should isolate the problem and create a reduced test case.
- Provide the information you collected in the previous section.

> Once it's filed:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
After the issue has been submitted:
```

Author: Done in https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/pull/186/commits/88b19ea3d2839666e182802f81c167cf12ef4efc.
